NOTE: I am not a lawyer. This is not a replacement for legal advice, just a
      useful reference document on FAQs in my head on licensing shtuff.


# What is copyright?

From [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copyright):

    Copyright is a legal concept, enacted by most governments, that grants the
    creator of an original work exclusive rights to its use and distribution,
    usually for a limited time, with the intention of enabling the creator of
    intellectual wealth (e.g. the photographer of a photograph or the author of
    a book) to receive compensation for their work and be able to financially
    support themselves.
From [eHow](www.ehow.com/list_5953336_types-licenses-copyrights.html):
    According to the U.S. Copyright Office, copyright is a form of legal
    protection based on U.S. law that protects original works of art, including
    but not limited to literary, dramatic, musical or artistic artwork.
    ...
    The rights protected and covered by the term "copyright" are as follows:
    the right to reproduce copies of a work; the right to create work derived
    from the original work; the right to rent, lease, lend or sell copies of
    work to the public; the right to publicly perform or exhibit a work; in the
    case of sound recordings, the right to transmit the work via digital
    transmission.

That's really all. By default, you as the creator retain exclusive rights to
use and distribution of whatever you done made.

But... you might not like that. What if you want a friend to be able to play
your music at his gig, for (a very hip and urban) example? That's where
licenses come in.


# What is a license?

The copyright owner can grant a **license** to someone if they want to use it.
This license might allow them to print their copyrighted book, for example.
Licenses can be written from scratch - it's just lending rights to people.
Problem is we're talking **legal rights**, so clauses and whatnot have to hold
up in a court. That's why most people looking to release their stuff for free
usage go for a well-known license like Creative Commons or GPL, so that they
know the legal jargon works out.

On the other hand, according to [this article](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2011/06/14/understanding-copyright-and-licenses/#what-is-a-license)
it's usual for an important-type (e.g. government involvement) license that a
license is specifically written, and that would involve a lawyer and therefore
lots of **money**.

A range of free licenses exist, because source code and software just ain't
much like stock photographs. You've got your GPL and MIT license for software,
and the Creative Commons assorted licenses for... well, pretty much everything
else.

By the way, you'd only want to release your stuff under a license if you want
to 'waive' some of your default exclusive rights as the author/creator.
You'd think that you *don't* automagically retain copyright on what you do,
since it seems so common for people to throw up 'All rights reserved' notices
everywhere. However, all that does is **remind people of the copyright which
already existed.** [Wikipedia]
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/All_rights_reserved) states nicely that the
phrase *"serves as a handy convention widely used by artists, writers, and
content creators to prevent ambiguity and clearly spell out the warning that
their content cannot be copied freely."*

Note: you might also see 'Some rights reserved' and 'No rights reserved'. These
refer to the Creative Commons license (usually) and being in the public domain
respectively. These are just boilerplate notices, same as above, since the
real/full license should be stated elsewhere (perhaps in the same paragraph),
like *"All articles are licensed under CC BY-SA"* or *"All work is in the
public domain"* (though the latter may not be applicable, since it's pretty
hard to chuck things in the public domain sometimes due to dumb copyright law
shit).

But actually, a license isn't always necessary. In some cases, you can whine
about what you've done being **fair use** (see a shitton of YouTube videos for
incredibly bad and dubious claims).


# What is fair use?

You don't *always* need a license to use a work.
[This article](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2011/06/14/understanding-copyright-and-licenses/#what-is-a-license)
(local copy saved in this directory somewhere) summarises very well:

    “Fair use” is an exception to the exclusive rights held by the copyright
    owner. It exists in some countries such as the US and UK. Under it, in
    certain cases, using work without permission is possible. If someone’s
    usage is defined as fair use, then they don’t need to obtain a license.
    Essentially, using copyrighted material is a legal right. Examples of fair
    use might include:

        * Educational purposes, such as teaching and student research;
        * Making commentary and criticism as part of a news report or published
          article.

    There’s a misconception that noncommercial or nonprofit use is always
    acceptable. It isn’t. Fair use is a legal term and is judged case by case.
    Always research thoroughly if you think your use of copyrighted material is
    legal.

Fair use is a (mainly-US) right granted by copyright law. It means other people
**can** use your stuff without asking, as long as it's not in this way or that
way, and only a bit, and lots more legal BS. Here's an example: it lets YouTube
reviewers use clips from a TV show in a review. Handy. (Doesn't apply to code
much, though.)


# Why use a license?

If you don't state a special copyright or license, then whatever you're doing
is put under 'default' copyright, which is restrictive and awkward and probably
not what you want. Check out that Creative Commons video again. It explains
very nicely that **anyone wanting to use your work has to receive explicit
permission**. 

Suppose you want anyone to use your stuff **fully** (i.e. without making up
fair use BS) without needing to ask. I mean, ugh, asking is effort for *both
sides*. In this (rather common) situation, you might distribute your work under
a **free license**. (rather long note: verbs used include 'distribute',
'license' and 'release'. I use them interchangeably, as everyone else seems to.
also, you can 'use' a license or 'apply' it to a work, I believe. at least, it
sounds nice like that.)


# What is a free license?

A free license is a license which gives to the user/person/licensee rights
which would usually be prohibited by copyright by default. For more detail on
this, see the `Creative Commons and Commerce` vidya in this directory. It
suggests that licensing stuff under Creative Commons is basically like changing
the default rights of the user, to give them more rights (mainly, the ability
to perform it publicly as long as you give attribution).

But that stuff's boring. Free licenses are easy enough to understand, right?
Free software licenses are a little more accurately defined, however.


# What is a free software license?

The FSF defines a program as free software if the program's users have these
essentials freedoms:

    * The freedom to run the program, for any purpose (freedom 0).
    * The freedom to study how the program works, and change it so it does your
      computing as you wish (freedom 1). Access to the source code is a
      precondition for this.
    * The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help your neighbor
      (freedom 2).
    * The freedom to distribute copies of your modified versions to others
      (freedom 3). By doing this you can give the whole community a chance to
      benefit from your changes. Access to the source code is a precondition
      for this.

A free software license is a license which guarantees these freedoms.


# What's the point of free software licenses?

Free software licenses give people the freedoms to change and improve software.
This is considered extremely important in the free software community, as it
allows the community to share work but disallows any proprietary modified
versions.

Other than that, it's pretty obvious why they're awesome. The free
software/open source community thrives on exactly that.


# What are 'copyleft' and 'permissive'/'non-copyleft' licenses?

Copyleft is, as [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copyleft) succinctly
states, *"the practice of using copyright law to offer the right to distribute
copies and modified versions of a work and requiring that the same rights be
preserved in modified versions of the work. In other words, copyleft is a
general method for making a creative work as freely available to be modified,
and requiring all modified and extended versions of the creative work to be
free as well."*

Copyleft licenses require any derivative works to use to **same license**.
They're also sometimes called strong copyleft. An example is the **GNU GPL**.

Permissive or non/weak-copyleft licenses do **not** require the same license to
be used in a derivative work. So, it permits proprietary derivative works.
Close to saying "do whatever you want with this". Best example is the **MIT
license**, which only requires you to keep the copyright notice which makes it
clear there is no warranty and that you're the owner.

The **GNU LGPL** (Lesser GPL) is kinda weak copyleft. It simply adds a clause
allowing integration/linking of the software into another software, whether
proprietary or not, without having to release the source of that software -
only the LGPL parts must be modifiable and have their source code available.
This is basically just for distributing libraries and whatnot.


# Using a software license

This is only for software licenses, at least for the moment, though it does
apply to licenses like Creative Commons a bit too.

See the `using-a-software-license.md` file in this directory for help.


# What if I want to make money off of my own GPL-licensed project?

Tut, tut. Not the way to keep the world going round -- but this is incredibly
common. It's called *'multi-licensing'* and usually means that the software is
available for free for non-commercial use, and for a hefty sum if you want to
use it commercially (this would likely be called *'dual-licensing'* due to
there being just two licenses available).

The [Wikipedia page](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-licensing) provides
some very helpful examples:

    Since in most cases, only the copyright holder can change the licensing
    terms of a software, multi licensing is mostly used by companies that
    wholly own the software which they are licensing. Confusion may arise when
    a person outside the company creates additional source code, using the less
    restrictive license. Because the company with the official code is not the
    copyright holder of the additional code, they may not legally include this
    new work in their more restrictively licensed version. Companies may demand
    outside developers agree to a contributor license agreement, before
    accepting their work in the official codebase and source code repositories.

Reminds you that, in order for you to commit your own code to an open-source
project, you'll likely have to agree to have it licensed the same way as the
rest of the code. Which [can be worse](http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/features/mysql-a-controversial-dual-licensing-model):

    Dual licensing and copyright assignment has been seen an acceptable, if
    undesirable, compromise to some developers. However, Brian Aker, the
    primary developer of Drizzle, a fork of MySQL, points out that “dual
    licensing forces any developer who wishes to contribute into a position of
    either giving up their rights and allowing their work to end up in
    commercial software, or creating a fork of the software with their changes.
    In essence it creates monopolies which can only be broken via forking the
    software,” and there is no guarantee that new versions of the code will
    remain free in perpetuity.

:(. Bad Oracle.
